---
layout: post
title: How to browse the Internet safely
---
The best way to prevent infection is to avoid exposure altogether. Malicious Web sites and spam emails are the prime methods that hackers use to gain access to victim's computers. Make it a rule to never open email attachments from people you don't know, even if it seems legit. A tactic I have seen a lot recently is spam emails disguised as package delivery or invoice notices. They may look like they come from UPS, FedEx, or USPS, but if you look closely at the sender, you'll see that their email address is usually not from the official site of those companies. Be vigiland and when in doubt, try verifying the sender's identity before opening any attachments.

Avoiding malicious Web sites is a little trickier, and not always completely avoidable, though. You can avoid the worst of the worst by always checking that the address bar in your browser matches the domain you expect to be at. Don't be fooled by tricky subdomains, though. They might make it look like you're where you want to be, when in fact you're somewhere else entirely. To identify the actual domain, find the highest level domain and work backwards. This will likely be .com, .org, .biz, or something similar. Work backwards from that top level domain and you'll find the name of the actual domain you are looking at. For example, if you think you're on a Google Website, you should see google.com as the domain. A malicious site may try and trick you with something like google-com.malicious-site.com. You might look at that address and think you are on one of Google's sitesDon't be fooled by the word "google" in the subdomain there -- the actual domain you are at is malicious-site.com.